readme.md, before:

# Computers in Chemistry (Python Programming)

Welcome to the **CD-224 Computers in Chemistry** course! This repository contains the course materials, including lecture notes, assignments, examples, and solutions related to Python programming and numerical methods.

## Course Overview
This course introduces Python programming with a focus on scientific applications. Topics include basic Python programming, numerical methods such as interpolation, integration, differentiation, linear algebra, and the solutions of ordinary differential equations (ODEs).

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Course Materials](#course-materials)
- [Assignments](#assignments)
- [Resources](#resources)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
To follow along with this course, you should have Python 3.x installed on your machine. We recommend using [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) or [Miniconda](https://docs.anaconda.com/miniconda/) to manage your Python environment and packages.

### Installation

1. On Windows machines, open the Anaconda PowerShell Prompt (as an administrator) and enter the following commands:
   ```bash
   conda create --name cd224-pyenv python=3.10
   conda activate cd224-pyenv
   conda install numpy matplotlib scipy pandas sympy

2. On Unix machines use your preferred package manager to install conda. Make sure to add conda to .zshrc or appropriate shell configuration file.
   ```bash
   conda create --name cd224-pyenv --file requirements.txt
   conda activate cd224-pyenv

## Folder Structure
* lectures/ - Contains Jupyter notebooks and scripts for each week’s lecture.
* assignments/ - Contains homework and assignments.
* solutions/ - Includes solutions to assignments (locked until the due date).
* data/ - Contains datasets used in examples and assignments.

## Course Materials
You will find lecture notes, code examples, and related materials in the following format:

* __Lecture Notes:__ Jupyter notebooks that provide explanations and code snippets for each topic.

* __Code Examples:__ Python scripts to demonstrate concepts with real-world data.

* __Assignments:__ Problem sets that help reinforce the concepts learned in each module.

## Assignments
Assignments need to be submitted via Microsoft Teams. All homeworks have to submitted in a zip file. The zipped file has to be named: Yourname_HW<#>.zip The directory that this opens has to be named Yourname_HW<#>. This directory should contain a subdirectory for each homework problem – numbered according to the problem number. In each of the subdirectories, you have to submit the source code as well as the output of the program.

## Resources
Here are some useful resources to help you with Python programming and numerical methods:
* [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/)
* [Numpy Documentation](https://numpy.org/doc/)
* [Matplotlib Documentation](https://matplotlib.org/stable/contents.html)

## Contributing
Feel free to open issues or contribute to the repository by submitting pull requests. Happy learning!

![import antigravity](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/python.png)

Commit message:

added git pull requests comment

readme.md, after:

# Computers in Chemistry (Python Programming)

Welcome to the **CD-224 Computers in Chemistry** course! This repository contains the course materials, including lecture notes, assignments, examples, and solutions related to Python programming and numerical methods.

## Course Overview
This course introduces Python programming with a focus on scientific applications. Topics include basic Python programming, numerical methods such as interpolation, integration, differentiation, linear algebra, and the solutions of ordinary differential equations (ODEs).

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Course Materials](#course-materials)
- [Assignments](#assignments)
- [Resources](#resources)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
To follow along with this course, you should have Python 3.x installed on your machine. We recommend using [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) or [Miniconda](https://docs.anaconda.com/miniconda/) to manage your Python environment and packages.

### Installation

1. On Windows machines, open the Anaconda PowerShell Prompt (as an administrator) and enter the following commands:
   ```bash
   conda create --name cd224-pyenv python=3.10
   conda activate cd224-pyenv
   conda install numpy matplotlib scipy pandas sympy

2. On Unix machines use your preferred package manager to install conda. Make sure to add conda to .zshrc or appropriate shell configuration file.
   ```bash
   conda create --name cd224-pyenv --file requirements.txt
   conda activate cd224-pyenv

## Cloning and Updating the Repository

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone indranil-sscu/cd224-spring

2. Update the repository regularly to stay up to date with new materials
   ```bash
   cd <repository-folder>
   git pull origin main

## Folder Structure
* lectures/ - Contains Jupyter notebooks and scripts for each week’s lecture.
* assignments/ - Contains homework and assignments.
* solutions/ - Includes solutions to assignments (locked until the due date).
* data/ - Contains datasets used in examples and assignments.

## Course Materials
You will find lecture notes, code examples, and related materials in the following format:

* __Lecture Notes:__ Jupyter notebooks that provide explanations and code snippets for each topic.

* __Code Examples:__ Python scripts to demonstrate concepts with real-world data.

* __Assignments:__ Problem sets that help reinforce the concepts learned in each module.

## Assignments
Assignments need to be submitted via Microsoft Teams. All homeworks have to submitted in a zip file. The zipped file has to be named: Yourname_HW<#>.zip The directory that this opens has to be named Yourname_HW<#>. This directory should contain a subdirectory for each homework problem – numbered according to the problem number. In each of the subdirectories, you have to submit the source code as well as the output of the program.

## Resources
Here are some useful resources to help you with Python programming and numerical methods:
* [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/)
* [Numpy Documentation](https://numpy.org/doc/)
* [Matplotlib Documentation](https://matplotlib.org/stable/contents.html)

## Contributing
Feel free to open issues or contribute to the repository by submitting pull requests. Happy learning!

![import antigravity](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/python.png)
